---
title: Git & Github
date: 2023-08-24 00:34:02 +0500
categories: [Github, Command]
tags: [Github, Command, conflict]
---
## Git
Git is Version Control System(VCS)<br>
So files in project on VCS can be tracked like addition, eddition and removal

through VCS,
> It is possible to back up files, manage version control, and collaborate among team members
{: .prompt-info}

## How Git store data

Most version control systems (such as CVS, Supervision, Perforce) manage changes to each file in chronological order, a method known as delta-based version control. 
However, Git prioritizes the moment a file exists and treats data as a series of file system snapshots. 
Therefore, if a file hasn’t changed, Git does not store it again but instead saves a link to the existing file.

Please rewrite those sentences based on the following contents and words:

Figure 4. Storing data as changes to a base version of each file
Git doesn’t think of or store its data this way. Instead, Git thinks of its data more like a series of snapshots of a miniature filesystem. With Git, every time you commit, or save the state of your project, Git basically takes a picture of what all your files look like at that moment and stores a reference to that snapshot. To be efficient, if files have not changed, Git doesn’t store the file again, just a link to the previous identical file it has already stored. Git thinks about its data more like a stream of snapshots.


Figure 5. Storing data as snapshots of the project over time
This is an important distinction between Git and nearly all other VCSs. It makes Git reconsider almost every aspect of version control that most other systems copied from the previous generation. This makes Git more like a mini filesystem with some incredibly powerful tools built on top of it, rather than simply a VCS. We’ll explore some of the benefits you gain by thinking of your data this way when we cover Git branching in Git Branching.

https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/images/deltas.png
Save changes to each file over time

https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/images/snapshots.png
Save changes to your project as snapshots over time


## When it happends conflict
```shell
git fetch --all
git reset --hard orgin/main
git pull origin main
```
`git fetch --all`: Get a pre-crash file from a remote repository
<br>
`git reset --hard origin/main`: Reset Updated local file to pre-conflict
<br>
`git pull origin main`: Do a git pull as usual
<br><br>

## Configure Git to handle line endings
```shell
git config --global core.autocrlf true
```

When saving a text file, invisible characters are typed at the end of each line to mark the end of the line. 
<br>These characters are represented differently on different Operating Systems, which can cause conflicts when committing remotely from a local repository. 
<br>To work around this, you can set up Git to automatically convert end-of-line characters to Unix style when committing 
<br><br>


```shell
Git reset [file name]
```
It is a command to remove added file 

ref:
<a href="https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/getting-started-with-git/configuring-git-to-handle-line-endings">https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/getting-started-with-git/configuring-git-to-handle-line-endings</a>

